Simple Linear regression.

Problem 2.6
A soda vendor at Louisiana State University football games observes that more sodas
are sold the warmer the temperature at game time is. Based on 32 home games
covering five years, the vendor estimates the relationship between soda sales and
temperature to be ^y = -240 + 8x, where ^y  the number of sodas she sells and x 
temperature in degrees Fahrenheit,
(a) Interpret the estimated slope and intercept. Do the estimates make sense? Why,
or why not?
(b) On a day when the temperature at game time is forecast to be 808F, predict how
many sodas the vendor will sell.
(c) Below what temperature are the predicted sales zero?
(d) Sketch a graph of the estimated regression line.

Problem 2.7
You have the results of a simple linear regression based on state-level data and the
District of Columbia, a total of N ¼ 51 observations.
(a) The estimated error variance ^s2 ¼ 2:04672. What is the sum of the squared least
squares residuals?
(b) The estimated variance of b2 is 0.00098. What is the standard error of b2? What
is the value of ðxi  xÞ2?
(c) Suppose the dependent variable yi ¼ the state’s mean income (in thousands of
dollars) of males who are 18 years of age or older and xi the percentage of males
18 years or older who are high school graduates. If b2 ¼ 0:18, interpret this
result.
(d) Suppose x ¼ 69:139 and y ¼ 15:187, what is the estimate of the intercept
parameter?
(e) Given the results in (b) and (d), what is x2i
?
(f) For the state of Arkansas the value of yi ¼ 12:274 and the value of xi ¼ 58:3:
Compute the least squares residual for Arkansas. (Hint: Use the information in
parts (c) and (d).).


Problem 2.10
The owners of a motel discovered that a defective product was used in its construction.
It took seven months to correct the defects, during which 14 rooms in the
100-unit motel were taken out of service for 1 month at a time. The motel lost
profits due to these closures, and the question of how to compute the losses was
addressed by Adams (2008).7 For this exercise use the data in motel.dat.
(a) The occupancy rate for the damaged motel is MOTEL_PCT, and the competitor
occupancy rate is COMP_PCT. On the same graph, plot these variables against
TIME. Which had the higher occupancy before the repair period? Which had the
higher occupancy during the repair period?
(b) Plot MOTEL_PCT against COMP_PCT. Does there seem to be a relationship
between these two variables? Explain why such a relationship might exist.
(c) Estimate a linear regression with y ¼ MOTEL_PCT and x ¼ COMP_PCT.
Discuss the result.
(d) Compute the least squares residuals from the regression results in (c). Plot these
residuals against time. Does the model overpredict, underpredict, or accurately
predict the motel’s occupancy rate during the repair period?
(e) Consider a linear regression with y¼MOTEL_PCTand x¼RELPRICE, which is
the ratio of the price per room charged by the motel in question relative to its
competitors. What sign do you predict for the slope coefficient? Why? Does the
sign of the estimated slope agree with your expectation?
(f) Consider the linear regression with y ¼ MOTEL_PCTand x ¼ REPAIR, which is
an indicator variable, taking the value 1 during the repair period and 0 otherwise.
Discuss the interpretation of the least squares estimates. Does the motel appear to
have suffered a loss of occupancy, and therefore profits, during the repair period?
(g) Compute the average occupancy rate for the motel and competitors when the
repairs were not being made (call these MOTEL0 and COMP0), and when they
were being made (MOTEL1 and COMP1). During the nonrepair period, what
was the difference between the average occupancies,MOTEL0  COMP0? Does
this comparison seem to support the motel’s claims of lost profits during the
repair period?
(h) Estimate a linear regression model with y¼MOTEL_PCT–COMP_PCTand x¼
REPAIR. How do the results of this regression relate to the result in part (g)?


Problem 2.14
Professor Ray C. Fair has for a number of years built and updated models that explain
and predict the U.S. presidential elections. Visit his website at http://fairmodel.econ
.yale.edu/vote2004/index2.htm. See in particular his paper entitled ‘‘AVote Equation
for the 2004 Election.’’ The basic premise of the model is that the incumbent party’s
share of the two-party [Democratic and Republican] popular vote [incumbent means
the party in power at the time of the election] is affected by a number of factors
relating to the economy, and variables relating to the politics, such as how long the
incumbent party has been in power, and whether the President is running for
re-election. Fair’s data, 33 observations for the election years from 1880 to 2008,
are in the file fair4.dat. The dependent variable is VOTE ¼ percentage share of the
popular vote won by the incumbent party. Consider the explanatory variable
GROWTH ¼ growth rate in real per capita GDP in the first three quarters of the
election year (annual rate). One would think that if the economy is doing well, and
growth is high, the party in power would have a better chance of winning the election.
(a) Using the data for 1916–2008, plot a scatter diagram of VOTE against GROWTH.
Does there appear to be positive association?
(b) Estimate the regression VOTE ¼ b1 þ b2GROWTH þ e by least squares using
the data from 1916 to 2008. Report and discuss the estimation result. Sketch,
by hand, the fitted line on the data scatter from (a).
(c) Fit the regression in (b) using the data from 1916 to 2004. Predict the VOTE share
for the incumbent party based on the actual 2008 value for GROWTH. How does
the predicted vote for 2008 compare to the actual result?
(d) Economywide inflation may spell doom for the incumbent party in an election.
The variable INFLATION is the growth in prices over the first 15 quarters of an
administration. Using the data from 1916 to 2008, plot VOTE against
INFLATION. Using the same sample, report and discuss the estimation results
for the model VOTE ¼ a1 þ a2INFLATION þ e.
